# Highlights of Chinese Medicine History
## Introduction
Along with the rise and fall of Chinese culture in the past 5000 years, Chinese medicine has also experienced its ups and downs all through the history.

*Huangdi Nei Jing (The Yellow Emperor's Inner Classic)*, is the earliest medical classics that we can trace back today with written records. It was originated from 4718 years ago, when Huangdi, the Yellow Empire, started ruling and leading the country. Then, its knowledge kept evolving and expanding over times in the next 2000 years through Zhou Dynasty (1046-256 BC) to Spring-Autumn (770-476BC) and Warring state period (475-221BC), , when Chinese culture flourished the most, and various philosophers and scholars rose, including Confucius, founder of Confucianism and Laozi, founder of Daoism. The Huangdi doctrine finally appeared in the form of text publication in Western Han Dynasty (206BC-9AD). According to the book of *The History of the Han Dynasty*, the book of Huangdi Nei Jing contains eighteen volumes and *Huangdi Wai Jing*, thirty seven volumes.

In the reign of Emperor Wu of Western Han (157BC-87BC), a policy was enforced of abolishing all the other schools but remaining Confucianism monopoly. This started to result in narrow-mindedness of the scholars and civilians. Many doctrines and records in *Huangdi Nei Jing* were thus lost.

The Chinese culture embraced its revival in Tang Dynast (618-907), when scholars started to reorganize and study *Huangdi Nei Jing*, re-published the classics in the form of dialogues, with two parts we know well today: *SuWen* and *LingShu*.

In the following years from Yuan (1279-1368), Ming (1368-1644) and Qing dynasty(1644-1912), Chinese medicine scholars placed focus on techniques in acupuncture and herbal medicine, in a more practical way to treat mass population, but were met with great challenges, and the influence of traditional Chinese medicine gradually declined in the recent 100 years.

While outside of China, Japan and Korea, as the neighboring countries, have been deeply influence by Chinese traditional cultures and medicine. Korean medicine and Japanese Kampo have developed into its unique systems. Far in Europe, Marco Polo mentioned Chinese medicine repeatedly in his letters, but Chinese medicine did not get much recognition in western countries until recent 50 years. Today Chinese medicine has been taken as a complementary or alternative therapy to the mainstream healthcare.

## Chinese medical classics
As the foundation and origin of traditional Chinese medicine, *Huangdi Nei Jing* has been always cited and reused by all the later Chinese medicine literatures, which is either related with herbal medicine or acupuncture and moxibustion theories. How *Huangdi Nei Jing* enjoys such a big reputation is not only because of its long history, but also, and more importantly, its inclusiveness. Compared with the later classics, *Huangdi Nei Jing* gives a wide coverage of the relationships between the nature and human beings, for example, how the four, five or six seasons impact human's health. Also, it looks into the relationships between society and individuals, taking Yin-Yang 25 personalities for example. What makes *Huangdi Nei Jing* unique is that it explores and discusses metaphysical topics, which may seem intangible, but can actually be felt, sensed and even further proved by human, the beauty of the world, the paragon of animals<sup>1</sup> . It explains the concepts and theories of Qi all through the publication, taking Qi as the linkage between the inner organs and channels. In such a way, *Huangdi Nei Jing* has established that Chinese medicine is a study of holism, of resorting balance between complex relationships inside and outside the human body.

*Han Za Bing Lun* is another Chinese classics that is valued and explored till modern times. It faithfully inherits the theory of five Yun and six Qi in *Huangdi Nei Jing*, and divides human diseases into three types: epidemics with infection, non-infectious individual cases caused by external factors, and diseases caused by bad lifestyle. The items of medicine formula in this classics are the summary of how Chinese medicine remedied the large population threatened by epidemics widely spread in late East Han dynasty.

1.  Hamlet Act Two Scene Two  A room in the castle．

## Acupuncture and moxibustion literatures
In ancient China, acupuncture and Moxibustion were common therapeutic practice that were used to cure human diseases and save their lives. After thousands of years of development, ancient Chinese physicians have left valuable literature and experience for future generations, such as *Huangdi Nei Jing Ling Shu*, *Zhenjiu Jiayi Jing* and *Huangdi Ming Tang Moxibustion Classic*.

*Lingshu* is guided by the conception of Holism and based on the theory of Yin, Yang with five elements, and discusses the concepts of human physiology, pathology, diagnosis and treatment, and health. Compared with *Su Wen*, *Lingshu* has a more detailed record on the theory of meridian acupoints and acupuncture methods. The discussion of acupuncture methods in *Linshu* not only emphasizes the importance of keeping one's spirit and waiting for breath during the treatment but also mentions a series of acupuncture techniques. It also introduces the contribution of different needles, acupuncture site choosing, and contraindications of manipulation. Meanwhile, it mentions the relationship between acupuncture and the four seasons. It has laid a strong foundation for the development of acupuncture in later generations.

*Zhen Jiu Jia Yi Jing* was written by Huang Fu Mi who lived in the Western Jin Dynasty (266-316). It consists of 12 volumes and 128 articles. It describes the fundamental medicine theory in the previous six volumes and records the clinical treatment of various diseases including etiology, pathogenesis, symptoms, diagnosis, acupoint selection, treatment methods and prognosis in the last volumes. Besides, *Zhen Jiu Jia Yi Jing* not only defines the relationship between meridians and Zang Fu Organs but also locates 348 acupoints by different parts and channel system. In China, *Zhen Jiu Jia Yi Jing* is the earliest monograph of acupuncture which correlates the theory with the practice, and effects acupuncture therapy deeply until now. In Asia wide, *Zhen Jiu Jia Yi Jing* has been spread to Japan and Korea, bringing obvious influence on acupuncture academics and education in both countries.

*Huangdi Ming Tang Moxibustion Classic* is a single volume edition which was published in the late Northern Song Dynasty in 1127AD. The original author was a nameless person in the Tang Dynasty. The book records the moxibustion treatment methods and experience of the main points commonly used by adults and children, meanwhile, it paints more than 40 adults and children's figure drawings which include locations of the points and description from the front, side and back. As this book details the treatment methods and clinical operations of moxibustion, it has been cited by most medical classics since the Ming Dynasty until now.
## Ancient Chinese medical physicians
As the most legendary inheritance in the history of China, traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been regarded as a magic title. The development of traditional Chinese medicine is inseparable from the continuous exploration and inheritance of ancient people. Take a few famous people like: Bianque, Huatuo，and Li Shizhen. These people have made great contributions to the medical research and development in China. It is also a legendary figure in the history of traditional Chinese medicine.
### Huatuo
He is one of the four famous doctors in ancient China, and he is the world's first expert in creating surgery. Before the operation, he will let the patients take the "Mafeisan" invented by him, which is used to make the patients unconscious. It's also the first anesthetic in the world. He was also one of the founders of ancient Chinese medical sports. On the basis of forefathers' guiding technique, he made up “Wuqinxi”, and achieved the effect of health preservation by imitating the actions and expressions of five kinds of animals: tiger, deer, bear, ape and bird. It can be used to prevent diseases and strengthen the body and bones, which is very effective for the elderly and the weak. Even now, there are many people in China who use Wuqinxi.
### Bianque
One of the four famous doctors in ancient China, Bianque. His contribution to Chinese medicine is enormous. Bianque has applied the comprehensive diagnostic technology of traditional Chinese medicine in the diagnosis of visual diseases, that is, the four diagnostic methods summarized by traditional Chinese medicine later: observation, smell, inquiry and palpation. At that time, Bianque referred to them as color watching, auscultation, shadow writing and pulse palpation. This is also the most commonly used diagnostic technique in traditional Chinese medicine. So it is also known as "the first person to sum up experience".

With the continuous improvement of modern social science and technology and medicine, traditional Chinese medicine has gradually faded out of people's sight. Nowadays, traditional Chinese medicine is regarded as a method of health care and health preservation. Even so, traditional Chinese medicine is still regarded as a magic title. Its unique diagnosis and treatment methods are also talked about with great interest.
## Conclusion
Looking back into the history and the classics of Chinese medicine, we can conclude that Chinese medicine is more than merely a study of personal human body's health, it also reflects the life and death, prosperity and decline of a culture. When a society develops into its flourishing stage, its theory and publications also prove to be more tolerant and inclusive, taking *Huangdi Nei Jing* in Western Han dynasty and Tang dynasty for example. While when the dynasty dwindles away in rough times, Chinese medicine survived in civilians, although the official agencies decayed. For example, in the last thirty years of Eastern Han dynasty, totally twelve epidemics swept the whole country, averagely once every two to three years, in which the worst one was called "Shang Han Bing (Cold disease) " and approximately 20 million people lost their lives. That was also the time when the classics Shang Han Za Bing Lun emerged, and its author, Zhang Zhongjing, wrote in its preface that 2/3 of his family, more than 100 people died of Shang Han, the epidemic, during the ten years, which motivated Zhang Zhongjing to compile the book of *Shang Han Za Bing Lun*. Another example can be found in late Ming dynasty, when a plague prevailed across the country which killed millions of thousands of lives and directly weakened the emperor's reign and control, leading Ming dynasty to be conquered by foreign invasion. This also marked the start of Chinese medicine declining.

Today, when people continue to be threatened by epidemics, we cannot but review how the antient people survived, and how Chinese medicine classics and its prestigious practitioners emerged and succeeded. Chinese medicine is not only a kind of chemist, a pharmacy, or a pill that can kill the virus, but it's a methodology of readjusting and balancing the inner and outer environment that have been deviated. Chinese medicine represents a unique strong historical culture, and also reflects Chinese philosophy of treating the world and universe.
 
## Reference
Beijing DouWang Technology Co., Ltd. (M. Ni, Trans.).灵枢经. Ling shu jing [Ling Shu Classics] https://book.douban.com/subject/1447230/

Fan, J. P., Mu, Y. P., & Wang, X. M., Wu. H. G. (2009). ACTA UNIVERSITATIS TRANDITIONIS MEDICALIS SINENSIS PHARMACOLOGIAEQUE SHANGHAI . Moxibustion Characteristics of Huangdi’s Mingtang Moxibustion Classic, 32(2), 19–22. https://www.ixueshu.com/document/c5951ac9594994eeb9e58aa751f0f9b1318947a18e7f9386.html

Guo, R. & Qin, H. (1987). 明清——中医发展史上的高峰时期 Ming Qing – Zhong yi fa zhan shi shang de gao feng shi qi [The Crest of Chinese Medicine Development]. 云南中医学院学报 Yun nan zhong yi yao xue bao [Yun Na Acta Chinese Medicine and Pharmacology].

Huang di nei jing ling shu yi shi [Interpretation to The Yellow Emperor's Inner Classic Lin shu]. (M. Ni, Trans.). (1986). 南京中医学院 Nanjing Zhong Yi Xue Yuan [Nanjing University Of Chinese Medicine].

Huang, L. (2015). 扁鹊医学特征 Bianque yi xue te zheng [Bianque Medical Fetures]. 中国中医基础医学杂志(2) Zhong guo Zhong yi jichu yixue za zhi [Chinese Journal of Basic Medicine in Traditional Chinese Medicine], 203-208.

Yang, Y. (2008). 人体经络与气候变化的关系 Ren ti jing luo yu qi hou bian hua guan xi [On the Relationship between Human Meridian and the Climate Change]. Chang’an University, Xi’an, China.

Ye, Q. (0). 华佗五禽戏的养生之道 Huatuo wuqinxi de yang sheng zhi dao [Huatuo’s Wuqinxi, the Method of Strengthening Body Health]. 现代养生(6期) Xian dai yang sheng [Modern Health], 271-272.

Zhang, Z (2014). 黄帝内经素问集注 Huang di nei jing su wen ji zhu [Supplements and Notes to The Yellow Emperor's Inner Classic Su Wen]. 学苑出版社 Xue yuan chu ban she [Xue Yuan Publishing house].

Zhou, X. (2011). 中医药国际化的发展及趋势研究 Zhong yi yao guo jihua de fa zhan ji qu shi yan jiu [Studies on the Development and Trend of the Internationalization of Chinese Medicine]. (Doctoral dissertation, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine).

